# Shanghai-Flood-ABM
Climate change intensifies the frequency and severity of floods -  the most devastating and costly climate-induced hazard. Government adaptations such as dikes or beach nourishments are important, yet insufficient in the face of worsening hazards. They reduce the hazard probability, but the local actions at the household level determine the extent of damages and inequalities in its distributional impacts on various societal groups. To design effective policies and risk reduction strategies it is critical to understand the factors that motivate household adaptive actions. Quantifying the cumulative impacts of these factors on in terms of the speed and scope of household adaptation enables insights into the adaptation behaviour and risk exposure of different social groups. This fosters the design of multi-actor cross-scale flood adaptation strategies which reduce aggregate risks and address “within-country inequalities” of climate change. This paper  presents a spatially explicit agent-based model for the case of Shanghai, China to understand the impacts of household climate change adaptation to coastal floods and to draw new insights for policymakers. Specifically, we combine geolocation data of residential buildings with inundation data under various climate change scenarios to model the exposure of households in Shanghai. We further parameterize the households using context-specific micro-level survey data from Shanghai and depict household adaptation decisions using an extended version of the Protection Motivation Theory. 
For a full model description please view the ODD protocol in the thesis document.
The ODD protocol will be added to the respository for the defence.
